Hi everyone, welcome to uh LSD in the
mind of you of the universe with author
Chris Bash. Um the format of this
meeting is going to go as follows. I'm
going to introduce everyone.
Then the we're going to have a Q&A and
as uh John said just put your question
in the chat, let us know who it's
directed to and we'll try to answer as
many questions as we can. Um our panel
Teresa and David are have some questions
that are going to be asked first and uh
that will be basically be the format.
So I have the honor to introduce Chris
Be. We are so happy he he is here with
us today. He's here from North Carolina.
Um he is a professor ammeritus in the
department of philosophy and religious
studies at Youngstown State University
where he taught for 33 years. He is also
adjunct faculty at the California
Institute of Integral Studies, ameritus
fellow at the Institute of Noetic
Sciences and on the advisory board of
the Grath Legacy Training. Chris's
passion has been the study of
philosophical implications of
non-ordinary states of consciousness,
especially psychedelic states. An
award-winning teacher, an international
speaker, he has written four books. Life
Cycles, a study of reincarnation in
light of contemporary consciousness
research, Dark Knight, Early Dawn, a
pioneering work in psychedelic
philosophy and collective consciousness.
The Living Classroom, an explanation of
collective fields of consciousness and
teaching and LSD and the mind of the
universe, the story of his 20-year
journey with LSD.
Chris is a father of three, a Vatriana
practitioner, and lives in Weaverville,
North Carolina. Welcome, Chris, and
thank you so much for being here today.
Thank you, Donna. My pleasure. And uh
thank you everyone for spending part of
your Sunday with me. It's a pleasure to
be here. Uh a pleasure to talk about
these things and uh I'm really looking
forward to our discussion that follows
my comments here. So let me first shift
us into share screen so I can throw this
PowerPoint up
and
people can let me know if this is coming
through correctly. John, we looking
good?
Okay,
we are looking good.
Good. All right.
Uh, what I'd like to do today is simply
take you into uh the some of the
highlights. It's kind of a highlight
reel of of my book LSD and the Mind of
the Universe. As Donna mentioned, I've
written four books, but all of them come
out of my psychedelic work. and all of
them. And this book summarizes the
entire trajectory of my 20-year journey
working with LSD. I consider it probably
the most important book I will write in
my life, and it's an honor to to share
it with you here today. So, let me give
you some background. When I came out of
graduate school in 1978, I was a
philosopher of religion, an kind of an
atheisticallyincclined agnostic, and I
was looking for where to take my
research next. And it was at that
juncture
that I met the work of Stannislov Gra.
Let me get my picture out of here a
little bit of Stan Grath. And this book
changed the course of my life. All
right, come on. Get to me. Here we go.
Here we go. these two books, Realms of
the Human Unconscious, which Stan had
just published two years before, and LSD
psychotherapy, his manual on conducting
psychedelic sessions.
I immediately saw uh not only the
psychological significance of Stan's
work but the philosophical significance
to actually be able to explore
experientially the deep states of
consciousness that allow us to
experience the deep structure of the
universe itself that immediately I
recognized had profound philosophical
significance.
So what I did was to split my life in
half. During my day job, I continued to
teach at the university. I was teaching
in a department of philosophy and
religious studies, doing the things that
professors do. And in my nighttime job,
I began a 20-year journey working in
Stan's protocols with uh high doses of
LSD, recording all my experiences
systematically.
Uh yeah that's that's the backstory to
the book. Now as you know in Stan's work
he differentiates clearly between lowd
dose psycholytic therapy and highdose
psychedelic therapy. Lowdose maybe up to
a 100 sessions unfolding the mind
gradually layer by layer. psychedelic
therapy limited to three sessions
designed to trigger something
approximating a near-death episode
experience for people who were facing uh
death.
So after three uh introductory sessions,
medium dose sessions, what I eventually
chose was to work in the highdose
psychedelic therapy protocol.
I eventually did a total of 73 highdose
sessions
and I tried to be as systematically as
systematic and rigorous as I could. I
followed the same protocol in all these
sessions, the same sentence setting,
same sitter, same substance, same dose
level, same recording process and even
the same location working in Northeast
Ohio. I mention that because as you know
sometimes the setting in which we do our
work can influence the nature of the
experiences itself. So this was a long
sustained
um
inquiry into the deep structure of
consciousness and the universe. Now I
saw myself at the time simply doing an
extended course of psychedelic therapy.
But when I got to the end of my journey
and I was looking back, I realized that
this was more than simply psychedelic
therapy. That I was encountering
phenomena and dealing with challenges
that were not being addressed or had not
been addressed in the psychedelic
therapy literature. And so eventually I
named this particular protocol
psychedelic exploration.
The protocol, the methodology is that of
psychedelic therapy, working in
isolation, protected with the sitter,
uh, eye shades, headphones, the whole
nine yards, the usual thing. The
difference is the number of sessions.
The high number of sessions allow turns
this into something more than therapy
into an exploration of the deep
structure of the universe.
So of course there are many uses for
psychedelics. We use psychedelics for
many different purposes for recreational
purposes or to augment creativity. Let
me mention just three purposes that
stand out in my world. One of them is of
course therapeutic healing as this
picture from map shows which is
generating so much attention in the
literature and so much important
attention in this new renaissance.
The second use is for spiritual
awakening as we see reflected in this
dialogue between the Buddhist community
and the psychedelic community.
Zigzag Zen, the use of psychoselics to
facilitate uh a spiritual awakening into
one's deeper essential nature.
And this is actually why I got started
in psychedelics myself was to accelerate
my own spiritual transformation process.
The third is cosmological exploration.
And this is what my journey turned into
cosmological exploration. And by this I
mean not simply collecting insights that
arise whenever we open in a psychedelic
state as always happens. But the
systematic pushing the boundaries of
consciousness again and again and
entering into deeper and deeper
communion with the consciousness that
lies within and behind the universe
itself.
I kept detailed careful notes of all my
sessions writing up every session within
24 hours. track the dates of my
sessions, of course, even looked at the
astrological variables of my sessions,
exploring correlations that Stan and
Richard Tarnis have proposed.
Now, few more introductory comments
before we jump into the book itself.
The story that I'm telling in LSD in the
mind of the universe is not primarily a
personal story.
It's primarily a cosmological story. I
found that this series of sine waves
represents a series of psychedelic
sessions which I've drawn overlapping in
order to emphasize the continuity that
runs between our sessions.
I found that uh insights into my
personal life tended to arise in the
beginning and endings of my sessions
when I was leaving and and coming back
to time space reality
working in this modality and I worked at
500 to 600 micrograms which as I
explained in the book is a protocol that
I don't recommend
working at such high dose levels when I
was in my peak hours of my sessions, I
was usually operating far beyond my
personal reality,
at least after the first 10 sessions or
so. So sometimes an entire session was
given over personal healing and
sometimes I would be shown certain
correlations between what I was being
seeing and what I in my own personal
life. But for the most part when I was
in my sessions I was operating at a
state of consciousness that far outside
uh my personal consciousness. And when
I've tried when I've written down my
experiences
unmute.
Hold on, Chris. You're muted. Hold on.
Hold on one moment.
Okay,
there you go.
Okay.
I actually filtered out a lot of my
personal experiences or experiences of
personal healing because I did not
consider them primarily important to the
story I wanted to tell.
If you're writing about therapeutic
uh psychedelic use, then your personal
experiences are of course absolutely
essential. But I was really functioning
as a philosopher of consciousness. I
wanted to explore the deep structure of
co of of consciousness.
All of us have a story. All of us have a
personal story. But this personal story
tends to fall away the deeper one enters
into uh the cosmological journey.
Now I found that let me get some reason
I'm losing contact.
Yeah, let me back up just a second. I
found that there was a continuity
between my sessions that one session
tended to start to end and the next one
would start exactly where the previous
one had ended more or less with some
varying degrees of overlap.
And in that process, I found that one I
went through not one but a series of
death rebirths experiences. In this
graph, everything below the line is time
space reality and our consciousness
functioning in time space reality. Above
the line is transpersonal consciousness
when we enter spiritual reality.
And of course when one makes this
transition from time space consciousness
to spiritual consciousness, one goes
through an ego death experience
which Alex Gray has illustrated so
powerfully in this picture which I like
very much. A complete loss, a complete
destruction of one's individual ordinary
conscious identity.
What I found on my journey was that as I
continued to press the limits of my
consciousness, I went through not just
one type of death rebirth experience at
the egoic level, but a series of death
rebirth experiences. And I began to
understand that death and rebirth is a
cycle that repeats itself as you enter
deeper and deeper levels of
consciousness.
And if we use the vocabulary that Stan
uses as we enter psychic, subtle and
causal levels of consciousness. Now I
don't have any vested interest in any
particular metaphysical ladder or
description of these deeper states of
consciousness. U the in my experience
the universe is infinitely deep. One can
enter hundreds of levels of
consciousness.
This is simply the articulation of a
principle that as we stabilize
consciousness at one level, when we go
deeper, we have to go through yet
another cycle of complete surrender in
order to enter into the initiation
that's possible at this deeper level of
consciousness.
In some ways, working particularly with
high doses of LSD has been compared to a
nuclear bomb. The nuclear bomb was
created in the same decade that LSD was
created. But a long sustained
series of psychedelic experiences
focused in a therapeutic modality
triggers as it were a sustained nuclear
explosion. not only destructuring
reality as you have known it, but
introducing you into deeper and deeper
levels of reality.
The way this nuclear explosion exposes
deeper levels of the atmosphere that
were always there but had been invisible
until this nuclear explosion uh brought
them into our awareness.
Now, we're not talking about nuclear
bombs, of course. We're talking about
this beautiful universe that we are part
of. A hundred billion galaxies,
uh, billions of stars in our own Milky
Way galaxy.
So, I'd like to use this picture now as
the backdrop to talk about some of the
turning points on my journey and some of
the levels of reality I entered.
When I was looking back over the whole
of my journey and trying to create the
structure for the telling of the story,
I identified five core levels of
consciousness or core cycles of death
and rebirth that I went through.
One having to do at the level of
personal mind, personal consciousness.
The second collective mind or the
species mind.
The third archetypal mind.
The fourth operating at the level of
causal oneness or the one
and the fifth diamond luminosity.
So this is the organization I used in
actually creating the traalog that's in
the book. So let me back up and simply
pull out the chapters or take you
through the book identifying the
sequence of the experiences.
Can't talk about them very much in the
brief time we have but just give you
some signposts.
The chapter dealing with personal mind
is the chapter two crossing the boundary
of birth and death. This is
in my experience this was like classic
perinatal death rebirth process. I felt
like a poster boy for Stan Gra's
description of the perinatal process.
Very intense convulsions, very intense
confrontations with the meaninglessness
of life uh with the limits of existence.
Eventually after in the course of two
years and 10 sessions coming to a point
where the universe just snapped me like
a twig. It just basically broke me in
half. And it did that by forcing me to
become the exact opposite of everything
that I had known myself to be. I entered
this work as a male, white male
academic, passionately interested in the
meaning of life. I became the exact
opposite of that. I became hundreds of
women, women of color, women who have no
interest in philosophical inquiry at
all. It was just it was a terrifying
ordeal. And when I let go and I
surrendered to that ide ordeal, I was
then flipped into the positive side of
women's experiences and taken on the
most extraordinary journey of women's
experiences under the arm of the great
mother.
Now, I believe in reincarnation. I
believe we all have had lives as men and
women and and but this wasn't simply uh
an encounter with my previous lives as
women. The message here was not embrace
your former lives. The message was where
you are going gender does not exist. Let
go.
And when I let go of my identity as
Chris Beige, as I had known myself, I
entered into the beginnings of a deep
conversation with the universe, a deep
communion with the universe.
And I thought after having gone through
this very deep ego death that uh my
suffering was over and now that I would
just be introduced to a a banquet of of
cosmological insights. But that's not
what happened.
At the level of collective mind, there's
several chapters here.
Now,
I divide my sessions or my sessions
divided themselves into two halves. A
purifi a purifying stage or a cleansing
stage and an ecstatic stage.
In the sessions in the two years
following the crossing the boundary of
birth and death in the in the purifying
stage, I began to enter levels of
of reality that involved hundreds of
thousands of people, thousands and
thousands of years, a vast domain of
terrible anguish and suffering and
violence. I was brought back into this
domain consistently and taken deeper and
deeper into it. Uh at first I thought
this represented a deepening of my ego
death. But this went on for so long and
it involved so many people in such
excruciating detail that eventually I
came to a different conclusion.
And the conclusion was that somehow in
my sessions,
my personal reality, sort of my personal
transformation had been exchanged or had
been uh had been surrendered and became
a process of collective transformation.
that the healing that was taking place
and the uncovering of trauma that was
taking place was not about my personal
healing and not about my personal trauma
but was about collective healing. The
healing that our species has collected
over its thousands and thousands of
years of history.
When I went into the ecstatic portion of
these same sessions, I entered in what I
called deep time in the chapter deep
time in the soul.
I had a for one year I had a repeated
experience, seven sessions of
experiencing my life from start to
finish, beginning to end as a
simultaneous present. I experience the
beginning of my life, the end of my
life, all the middle of my life as a
completed whole, as something yet to be
and something that was already complete.
When I first entered deep time, it was
an extraordinarily powerful and moving
experience to me. And yet, when I came
out of the session, I lost it. I
couldn't remember it. But what I found
was that by going back into the same
state of consciousness again and again,
my experiences in those states got
clearer. My recall got more complete. I
was learning how to stay awake, stay
conscious inside deep time. And this is
an important epistemological point. When
you systematically enter states of
consciousness that are so far removed
from anything we know inside time and
space, it's very hard to bring back all
our experiences intact. But if you go
back to the same state of consciousness
with rigor and discipline, eventually
your consciousness adapts to the unusual
conditions and you learn how to stay
awake in states of awareness that
previously
had simply swallowed you. And this
repeats itself or in my experience it
repeated myself over and over and over
again. When I would break into a new
state of consciousness,
it was very hard to retain everything
that I had encountered. But with with
repetition, my recall got stronger.
Now quick just aside comment in my
20-year journey, I worked for four
years. I stopped for six years for
reasons given in the book and then I
resumed for a very intense 10 years.
This is where my journey stopped after
four years and then I took a six-year
hiatus.
And when I began,
this is reported in the chapter
initiation into the universe. When I
began, the ocean of suffering began
exactly where it had stopped six years
before without missing a beat. And it
continued to deepen and deepen and
deepen in intensity. Meanwhile, in the
ecstatic portion of the session, I was
taken into an extraordinary journey into
the universe, completely transcending
anything to do with my personal life.
That was over. Now, it it was as if the
consciousness guiding my sessions was
giving me a crash course in cosmology
101.
Now, I I give names to all my sessions.
I give names. I take notes. I break them
down into bullet points. When I see the
name, it brings the entire session to
mind. My goal as a philosopher is to
hold my entire journey in my mind at the
same time. So the names of the sessions
that I address in this chapter are as
follows.
All of these were
operating at the subtle level of
consciousness beyond the psychic level
of consciousness.
They were all taking me deep into this u
learning about how the universe is put
together. The master plan was an
initiation into some of the core themes
of humanity's evolution. And I'm going
to come back to this later.
Eventually, the ocean of suffering
culminated in session 24, healing the
collected womb. D suffering uh that I
was absorbed into reached unprecedented
levels and then it culminated in this
orgy of healing healing this collective
pain and then it disappeared and the
collective pain the ocean of suffering
never reappeared in any subsequent
session. We then went on to the next
level of work.
Then the next level of work for me
involved an encounter that took place at
the archetypal level of consciousness
in the chapter the greater real of
archetypal reality.
So much that I could say here trying to
keep it short so we can go into
questions and answers soon. I found that
basically I could break down my
experiences here between two levels. one
level taking place at the highest subtle
level at the what you might call
platonic level of consciousness in which
I experience archetypes that lay far far
beyond time and space but they were not
archetypes as Plato described them.
Plato describes archetypes as unchanging
eternal ideas in the mind of an of an
eternal deity. I experienced archetypes
as vast living processes,
so radically beyond anything we know of
inside time and space, anything I had
known of that I literally could not wrap
my mind around them. The closest I could
come to seeing them in any coherent way
was I saw them as galaxies, which was
simply the best my mind could do to
approximate them. They were operating on
a different order of time, a different
order of intentionality. And these were
the constituive forces that were
responsible for creating time and space
and creating the reality that was
unfolding inside time and space.
At a lower subtle level, also at the
archetypal level, I entered what you
might think of as a yungian level of
consciousness where I had repeated
experiences of the universe of this mind
of our species operating as a single,
one mind of the entire species. And I
was given repeated lessons in how the
how this works. How is it that each of
our individual minds are fractal aspects
of the mind of the species? How our
individual karma is part of our
collective karma.
I began to have experiences at this this
level of collective reincarnation. That
is I began to have experiences of the
entire species incarnating generation by
generation as a single unified whole.
Previously I had thought of
reincarnation in terms of the individ
the story of the individual soul. The
story of all of our individual souls
choosing individual lives for our
individual development. But here all
this dissolved into an experience of the
entire species as a single organism
evolving itself through a deep profound
collective process and all of our
individual lives were fractal aspects of
this deep collective process.
The magnitude of what I was seeing
completely reframed my understanding of
the intelligence operating inside the
universe and in our own evolution.
These are the sessions which I address
in this chapter.
And I'd like to point out how much
cleansing is involved even at this high
archetypal level.
Session 28, the fever is broken, was a
very high uh my first encounter with um
causal reality, very pure celestial
state of awareness after which I was
plunged into three grueling sessions of
just excruciatingly
excruciating purification.
Took me a long time to understand what
was happening here. But eventually I
began to realize to began to understand
the following. That every step every
deeper level of reality functions at a
higher level of energy. And when you
break through to a higher a deeper level
of reality,
your entire psychophysical system has to
go through a purification process that
will allow you to handle the enormous
flows of energy that are operating at
that higher level of reality.
This repeated itself again and again
after I would have a major breakthrough
into a new level of reality. The
following session was always kind of a
carrying out the garbage session. It was
always a session of deep cleansing. So
much so that I began to dread the
session following a major breakthrough
session.
Again, this is this is an insight that's
important. If you if you touch a deep
state of consciousness very briefly,
this may not manifest itself. But if
your goal is to have sustained awareness
at a particular level of reality, then
you must go through this cleansing
ordeal. Otherwise, your experiences at
that deeper level will be fragmented and
you won't be able to bring back a
coherent story.
After moving into archetypal reality, I
then went into what I came to understand
as causal reality, causal oneness. It
was an extraordinary year of blessings,
one blessing after another. The four
sessions that I address in this chapter
are these.
The forest was an experience of
shunyata, what the Buddhists call
shunata,
emptiness of self, profound
transparency,
no self in me, no self anywhere in the
world. Experience the world as a
manifestation of diversity
but complete interpenetration and no
separate self anywhere in existence.
Singing the universal way was an
experience that culminated in an
experience of the void, the fertile void
out of which all existence springs.
Jesus's blood was an experience of
profound cosmic love. Love unlike
anything I had ever experienced up to
this point in time.
The birth of the diamond soul. Let me
just linger there for just a second.
The con traditional teaching of
reincarnation. This was about
reincarnation. The traditional teaching
here is that when we achieve a certain
state of spiritual maturity, we awaken
to our spiritual essence. And at that
point, then we leave time and space. The
Hindus call awakening, spiritual
awakening uh
moka, to escape samsara, to escape
cyclic existence.
When one reaches spiritual maturity, one
then transcends time and space. You can
leave samsara. You can enter the pure
land. You can enter the garden or enter
heaven.
In this experience in session 38, I was
given a very different model of
reincarnation.
I began to experience all my former
lives coming into me very quickly. And
it was like wrapping a filament of white
light around a kite spool. And at some
point
all these lies fused
and there was a huge energy generated
and it catapulted me into a state of
consciousness beyond any that I had
experienced up to that time. I was both
an individual
but I was an individual beyond any frame
of reference that I had imagined
previously.
And I came to understand there was when
I this happened there was an explosion
of diamond light from my chest. And I
was given a series of teachings that
this is where reincarnation is taking
humanity.
We're not simply growing incrementally,
lifetime by lifetime, year by year,
century by century, making incremental
improvements in our uh developmental
sequence, becoming more bit by bit uh
actualizing our innate potential.
Eventually, we come to a point where all
of our former lives merge. We experience
our soul.
Now I think this happens when we die and
we return to spiritual reality. But the
birth of the diamond soul is the birth
of soul consciousness
inside our physical incarnation.
I think that humanity is evolving in a
direction where eventually
every human being born will be born not
into a contracted egoic consciousness
contracted into our time space person
but every human being will be born
o as a soul more conscious fully
conscious of their past and in a much
deeper communion
with surrounding spiritual reality.
From here my sessions took me next into
the diamond luminosity material
in the chapter called diamond
luminosity.
Now this chapter covers 26 sessions and
four years of work. And in those four
years, I entered this state which I call
diamond luminosity four times and only
four times.
I entered a state of reality that was
beyond anything I had previously
touched. It was exceptionally
exceptionally clear luminous reality. I
had touched light many times before. I
had been taken into light many times
before. But this was a higher order of
light than any I had previously known.
And when I call this light the diamond
luminosity, I'm not simply using a
metaphor to describe the light. I'm
trying to describe a particular register
of light, a particular quality of light.
I've learned that light has many many
levels to it. Many there are many
gradations of light. And this was an
exceptionally pure state of luminous
awareness.
I think that this is what the Buddhists
would call dharmakaya,
the clear light of absolute reality.
In between these four immersions, there
were, as you might guess, repeated
episodes of deep cleansing, profound
purification, many personal healings,
and then coming back into um these
states of hyper hyperclarity.
So much more that I'd like to say here,
but we'll let it stop here and and move
on.
the ninth chapter and I wish I had
written the book and put it in this
order because this is the order it
really belongs.
One of the recurring themes that kept
coming up in all of my work going all
the way back to the chapter on the
initiation into the universe was this
master story of humanity. I kept being
taken into the deep future and being
taken into the deep structural
evolutionary process underpinning
history. And I kept being given a series
of visions about where humanity was in
its evolution and where we were going.
And what I've done in the book is I
pulled all these bits and pieces rather
than address them bit by bit. I pulled
them together and presented it into this
one chapter, the birth of the future
human. And let me say that when I began
this work, I never imagined that I would
be talking about the birth of the future
human. I thought of this work as
personal transformation, personal
awakening. And yet I think that this
chapter may be the most important
chapter of the book because if the
visions we shared here are true, they
concerned my children, my grandchildren,
your grandchildren, all of the children
of our grandchildren. The vision that
emerges here is that humanity is coming
to a turning point in its long
evolutionary journey. a turning point
that will forever change the conditions
of life on this planet.
Here's the material I address in this
chapter.
The visions of awakening. I gather all
the snippets of bits and pieces from
these sessions that covered over four
years into a series of six visions
which basically are powerful visions
that are indicating that the creative
intelligence of the universe is trying
to awaken the entire species. Not simply
individuals but the entire species.
Now, for there to be a profound
collective awakening,
there must be a profound
purification.
And in session 55, which took place in
1995,
I was taken deep into the future. And I
I I apologize for the
seemingly absurd nature of this
description, but if you've been with me
so far, you'll go with me here, I hope.
I was taken deep into the future and
experienced not as an individual but as
the human species as a whole. I
experienced the death and rebirth of our
entire species. I experienced the entire
world coming into a profound
global systems crisis that seemed to
have been generated by a series of
global uh ecological crises. Now I was
not informed on uh ecology at this time.
I was not at all aware of uh the series
of ecological challenges that we are
facing which we are all quite aware of
now. This was in 1995. So this is over
25 years ago.
And yet I was taken into a future where
I experienced humanity being brought to
their new use. a radical loss of all the
certainties that we live with in life.
A complete loss of control, just an
absolute life-threatening, species
threatening crisis that went on for
years.
And yet, just when it was at its worst,
just when it seemed as if all was lost,
the storm passed.
And when the survivors picked themselves
up and began to reassemble, they were
different. They had been changed
profoundly at the core of their being by
the intensity of the crisis that we had
all gone through. They were different.
Their hearts were different. Their minds
were different. They began to generate
powerful patterns of new patterns of
civilization
uh based upon the new values, the new
understanding, the new insights that had
been awakened in them during this
crisis.
So much more to say there, but I'll have
to stop at that point.
The 11th chapter, final vision, is the
last year of my work, which included one
particularly intense session, the most
radical strip down that I had gone
through in any of my sessions, taking me
far, far into the future, and giving me
a series of of experiences of our
universe that seem to be the capstone of
everything that had taken place on my
journey up to this point in time. I
won't try to summarize it here because
time is the clock is relentlessly
moving.
And the last chapter which I don't think
you can see here is uh coming off the
mountain in which I describe what
happened when I stopped my journey.
Long story. I will say that this was the
hardest chapter for me to write. It took
me over a year to write this chapter
because when I stopped my journey, I had
been given so many gifts on this
journey. I thought that I could simply
withdraw and would receive the blessings
of all these visions that I had been
given. I would, you know, I had been
given the gift of a lifetime as a
philosopher.
But what I found over time was that I
was entering into a state of deep
existential sadness.
As I sat with this and it and lived with
it over time, I realized that I was
suffering from a withdrawal of intimate
communion with the divine fabric.
I eventually reached a point where I
realized I was simply waiting to die so
that I could return to intimacy with the
divine could dissolve into the divine
light again because once you've
dissolved into the diamond luminosity
time space can lose
it can lose its appeal.
It took me years. It took me about 10
years to finally consolidate myself back
into time space in a way that allowed me
to live contentedly within time and
space in the conditions of time space.
And I did so by grabbing my life and
focusing myself on living in the
physical world and the continued
assimilation of the impact or the
implications of the visions that I had
been given.
All my books come out of my psychedelic
work. The work on reincarnation comes
out of my early work in uh deep time in
the soul dark night early dawn though it
was published after my sessions had
ended. I did all this work between 1979
and 1999
I talk about my journey in Dark Knight
Early Dawn but I only talk about the
first half of the journey. I really
don't talk about the second half. The
core theme of Dark Knight Early Dawn is
the collective structure of
consciousness and the collective import
of our transformative practices.
And then I wrote a book called The
Living Classroom in 2008. And very
quickly, the backstory of that book is
that even though my students never knew
anything about my psychedelic
experiences and I did not talk about my
psychedelic work on campus for obvious
legal reasons, I found that my students
were being impacted by my psychedelic
work that they were there was a ripple
effect that the deeper I went into the
unified fabric of reality, it was as if
the it was center sending ripples of
transformation out around me and my
students were being impacted by those
ripples. Eventually I had to study them.
I had to really understand more deeply
what was taking place, what was
happening. And I wrote the living
classroom which is about collective
consciousness and I don't mention
psychedelics there at all because
psychedelics are not the issue. The
issue is this the nature of
consciousness itself and it doesn't make
any difference which transformational
method you're using. If you go deeply
enough into the structure of
consciousness,
it will have ramifications that will
spread out around you in 360 degrees.
All of these come out of my psychedelic
work and it is where we go here. Yeah,
LSD in the mind of the universe,
diamonds from heaven really tells the
core story of this journey.
Thank you very much for letting me
describe it to you today.
Thank you so much, Chris. It does tell
the story in detail. It's an amazing
book. I highly recommend it. Um
especially after hearing this talk.
Um before we move on to the Q&A, I'd
like to introduce our two co-hosts. And
um our co one of our co-hosts, Teresa,
um is going to ask a few questions, but
I'm going to give introductions right
now. Teresa Marie is a certified coach
and speaker on neuroscience and
consciousness. She has a a master's
degree in organizational development
from John F. Kennedy University. Teresa
has spoken internationally and has a
TEDex talk on what the dying can teach
the living. Teresa and Dr. David
Jackson, an anesthesiologist, co-f
facilitate psychedelic psychotherapy
sessions using ketamine and other
psychoactive medicines. David uses his
medical, scientific, and problemolving
nature to work with clients to find the
right medicine. and Teresa supports
clients through the integration work of
the medicine. The goal is to make
clients conscious of unconscious
patterns that keep them in the cycle of
depression, anxiety, and addictions so
that they can experience personal
transformation.
Their integrated approach helps clients
achieve a more meaningful experience
existence rather. Teresa, you want to
say hello?
Hello. How how are you?
Okay. And Dr. David Jackson. Dr. Jackson
is an anesthesiologist and functional
medicine doctor with his BSE from Rice
University and MD from Southwestern Med
Medical School. David developed his
interest in transform transformative
mental wellness and enthogenic treatment
of addiction in a family member after 30
plus years of failed conventional
therapy.
Using his experience with the practice
of anesthesiology, doc Dr. Jackson has
developed specific means for mitigation
of undesirable effects,
pharmarmacological treatment while
developing compounded therapies tailored
for optimal effect, timing, and safety.
David emphasizes the importance of
interaction with concurrent medications,
age, coexisting medical conditions,
medical and therapeutic history,
precision dosing, chemical purity, and
safety through the education of
therapists and clients. David partners
with Teresa for an integrative approach
to transformative therapy for enduring
results and offers tele medicine
consultation to determine the best
advantageous approach to your wellness.
Welcome David.
Hey, thank you Donna and thank you
Chris. That was awesome. Thank you.
Okay, at this point um we're gonna go to
the Q&A and we're gonna start with
Teresa.
Great. Chris, that was an amazing talk
and I loved it and I have to tell
everybody his book is really wonderful.
Really wonderful. Can everybody hear me?
Okay.
Okay, great. So, I would love for you,
you know, you worked with Stan Grath
early on and you know, you worked with
an awful lot of his protocols and things
like that. And I know a lot of people
will indicate in a lot of ways that
okay, well, can you get to these states
of consciousness other than through
psychedelics? So what how would you
compare like holotropic breath work to
your high LSD sessions
because you've trained with him a little
bit?
Yeah. Well, I've not done any of Stan's
training in the holotropic breath work.
I mean train Stan as a colleague and
we've we've been in dialogue and we've
been on podiums together. uh and I
consider Stan to be the primary
intellectual figure that I've been in
dialogue with as I've unfolded my own
account.
Uh yes, absolutely. One can enter into
these states without using psychedelics.
Uh psychedelics are an amplifier of
consciousness. So in the end, it's
consciousness that does the work. I've
had many people write me after this book
has come out and say, "I understand what
you're saying. I've had many similar
experiences myself and I've never used
psychedelics. I'm a lifelong meditator,
so on and so forth. As an academic, I've
taught courses in comparative mysticism
and I've studied the, you know, the
lives of of the great masters, the great
spiritual masters who certainly moved
into these states and into even deeper
states of consciousness. And clearly
all the great masters, all honor to the
great masters. They've always been my
guides in this process. So yes, one can
move into these states uh without
psychedelics. U but we're talking about
not just a few years of work or even a
few decades of work. We're talking about
lifetimes and lifetimes of consistently
working to push these boundaries. The
great spiritual masters have been u at
this for many lifetimes.
Um my sense is that holotropic breath
work is a very powerful uh evocative you
know amplifier of consciousness.
Um I think it basically uh it can evoke
states of consciousness equally strong
to psychedelic states. I don't know
think that it would be
I do not have enough experience to truly
say this but my impression is and
talking with many practitioners that I
would think that holotropic breath work
would be able to generate states that
are comparable to low or medium dose LSD
sessions but not high dose LSD sessions
not the type of states of consciousness
that open in a sustained series of such
sessions
But we're talking we're these are points
on the continuum. Uh I've had some very
very deep experiences uh in holotropic
breath work sessions uh that were
certainly in many respects comparable to
my psychedelic experiences.
Great. Thank you so much. Now you also
talk a lot about the future human and
you talk about kind of that we're going
to go through a lot of suffering. Okay.
Well, most transformation tends to
happen in suffering and it's kind of a
shame that it's that way. I always say
that, but it it propels us on. Can you
talk a little bit more about kind of
what some of your visions were? Because
have a have some of them come to pass
since what you saw in the '9s? Have some
of them come to pass or are you still
waiting for some of them to come to
pass? Because I think that I think a lot
of people are really interested in that.
Yeah,
you know the consistent theme in my
sessions was positive that humanity was
coming to a turning point in history.
That humanity after a very very long
evolutionary journey was coming to a
decisive turning point that was changing
the course of history. that there was we
were coming to a collective spiritual
explosion and that this was being driven
uh from underneath us. It was it was a
decision made at a cosmological level
driving up underneath us and surfacing
in our individual lives that we were
cooperating with but was much larger
than than simply the act of all of our
individual lives. It's really only one
particular session where I was taken
into the specific conditions of our
death and rebirth, our collective death
and rebirth. And in that vision, in that
session, session 55, I wasn't given any
details. I wasn't given any time. I
wasn't given any specific experiences of
like COVID 19 or anything like that.
What I experienced was the entire
species of the planet being brought to
its collective knees, being entering a
period of profound compression, profound
loss of control, deep existential
uh
angst and just an absolute almost
hopelessness, just being overwhelmed by
the conditions we were facing. And then
in the depth of that in in some ways a
collective death rebirth process like
like a collective near extinction event
and in that process we
metamorphised we changed we became more
than we had been before. Now in many
sessions leading up to that I was taken
into what I think are the nuts and bolts
of this and that nuts and bolts of this
are reincarnation.
I think that we have been evolving and
and developing ourselves and becoming
more for thousands and thousands of
years. And just as gestation is a long
gradual process of development, but
birth is a very short cathartic process.
Likewise, human evolution is a long
gradual developmental process. But the
birth of the next level of human
experience, the next form of humanity,
the birth of the future human, which I
think will be the birth of the diamond
soul in history. That birth process is
relatively speaking short and cathartic.
I don't know how long it will take. I
would I would anticipate that it would
take multiple generations. This is an
evolutionary pivot that we're making.
I have had experiences where I was taken
into the future and allowed to
experience the future human, experience
the archetype of the future human. And
those experiences drove me into deep
ecstasy. It was some of the most
profoundly moving experiences of my
journey because we're
we're talking about a human a humanity
healed of all the scars of history, of
all the terrible things that we've done
to each other. A humanity with its
consciousness open, capable of profound
communion with the creative intelligence
of the universe.
I think we are going through a
developmental process. We're coming into
the hard part. We're coming into the
birth process and I think it's really
important for us to have a vision of
what this is all about because when it
starts to get really bad and I think
COVID may be the overture of the
symphony of our transformation. It is
not itself
sufficiently powerful to bring about the
events that I that I experienced in my
sessions. But I think it's an overture.
It shows us it's teaching us a lot. It
has taught us a lot if we're paying
attention a lot that can be very helpful
when the deeper crises come. And I think
the deeper crises are going to be any
number of forms of ecological
punctuated crises that are going to hit
us wave after wave in the decades ahead.
Now we're getting a better sense of
what's coming at us. We can see it.
We've, you know, we've got good maps.
Dwayne Elgen's book um choosing Earth
gives a the next five decades breaks it
down decade by decade of the challenges
we're facing there any number of books
that are pointing this out to us. So I
think we can see what's coming.
The challenge is understanding the
evolutionary implications of what's
coming.
Yeah. Yeah. I would agree. Thank you.
So there was a question in the chat that
asked you about when you said the same
set and setting each and every time. Can
you describe your set and setting for
those who have not read your book? I
know what the set and setting is but you
know it would be really helpful for you
to explain how that worked um in in your
process.
I do a lot of preparation for every
session. Uh I take good care of my body.
I make sure that my body is relaxed um
and clear. I I watch my diet
particularly in the day session day.
Personally, I would always start in the
morning. I start in the early morning
with yoga and meditation. I was always
working um either at home or in my
wife's office. My wife then Carol was a
clinical psychologist. Uh she was my
sitter for all of my sessions. All of my
sessions were focused on uh spiritual
intention.
Um I found that I tried experimenting
with setting an intention for my
sessions but I found that working with
doses this high that basically was uh
irrelevant. My personal intention became
irrelevant. So that my intention became
one of absolute complete surrender. My
prayer was whatever you need
I give you. whatever the universe needed
from me on that day is what I would
give. Um after the session, I mean I
always wrote my sessions up within 24
hours the next day. Um I developed the
more frequently you go into these states
in a sustained manner, the greater the
impact is on your subtle energy system.
I found that it was really important to
do um very active spiritual practice
particularly after a session. So later
when I was entering the diamond
luminosity work, it was during that time
that my spiritual practice became more
focused on vadriana Buddhism. So I do
specific practices before a session and
different practices after a session. Um
I found that uh when I began to do these
vadriana practices, these ancient
practices that have very old, you know,
morphagenetic fields associated with
them, uh it had a distinct impact on my
journey. It had it it really helped
facilitate not only the entry into these
deep states of consciousness but it
helped me absorb the insights and the
energy of the impact with these deep
states of consciousness. So a lot of
intentionality and these experiences
take a lot out of your body. I mean
these are you know huge you're you're
subjecting yourself to huge tidal waves
of energy. So careful preparation,
careful focus and then very careful
debrief is absolutely essential.
Chris, you mentioned um didn't you
mention that music was a pretty big part
of your journeys at least in the
beginning and the replaying of the music
afterwards to help you with your
recollections. Did you you feel like
that's important or that it was
important even at that level your higher
levels later in your um sessions? Yeah,
I worked I use music in all of my
sessions all the way through very
carefully selected music. You know,
there's we have literature on
the theoretical approach to the stages
of a session, matching the stages of the
session with the music that has
qualities that match the stages of
sessions. I like never working with
music that has English. If there are
words at all, it would have words that
you couldn't understand. You don't want
to trigger familiar associations.
I very quickly after a year or so, I let
go of classical music for the most part
and used almost exclusively indigenous
music. I found that to be much more
powerful, evocative for me. When I would
write up my sessions, I developed a
strategy for improving recall. I would
listen to the music that was played in
the session in exactly the same order in
which it had been played and I would
keep playing the same music over and
over again while I was writing up the
session until I felt I had captured what
had happened during that piece of music.
Then I would go to the next piece of
music and I would continue the process.
I found that playing the music of the
session while I was writing up the
session allowed me to get a more
complete portrait down in print of the
session itself and it really helped
improve recall.
Thank you.
Now I've also done subsequent I mean
after I stopped my high dose LSD work of
course I've done other sessions since
then. Sometimes I've used music
sometimes I haven't used music at all. I
understand.
I understand just opening up without
music as well as opening up with music.
But for me, working with high doses of
LSD, the experiences are so intense, so
extreme. I found working with music to
be a very helpful adjunct to the opening
process.
Great. Thank you.
Um, also you you mentioned in your book
too that of course your LSD doses were
primarily between five and 600
micrograms. Correct.
Yes.
Yes. Yes. And then you mentioned after
you uh of course you had that down
regular where you connected with the
divine and you you felt oneness of
everything and that amazing
consciousness state and then to come
kind of come back down here to this
state and this everyday being can be a
little disappointing and you' mentioned
that you had tried other other
psychedelic medicines and someone had
asked you know in the chat you know I
know you said you tried Iawaska and
psilocybin but you didn't feel like they
were as powerful as LSD
um in your journey. Can you express a
little bit as to you know why you feel
like that was the case?
Well, there are many many psychedelics
of course thousands of synthetic
psychedelics, hundreds of organic
psychedelics. Um
my sense is that each psychedelic while
having the common feature of opening
consciousness, amplifying consciousness,
each psychedelic has a particular set of
qualities and activates has a potential
to activate a certain range of
consciousness. Serial usage o over
multiple sessions can deepen that range,
but there's basically a certain range
and a certain quality. I experience LSD
as being kind of what I would call a a
high ceiling psychedelic. It tends to
push the cosmological ceiling. Whereas
psilocybin tends to be much more body
grounded, emotionally saturated, tuning
to our physical body, tuning to our
emotional body. It has ceiling, but it's
my experience of it is it tends to be a
much more of kind of an embodied
opened state rather than a potentially
disembodied open state or far from
embodied open state. Iaska I've had
limited experience with but it seems to
me similar in that way very closely
integrated with the body with the
emotional body. uh it has more headroom
in my experience than psilocybin does
though I have only initial preliminary
experience with that I have had some
experience with 5me DMT very different
psychedelic very potentially profound
catapulting psychedelic the challenge
with that particularly is of course it's
so short acting and that opens up a
whole another area of discussion short
acting psychedelic versus long acting
psychedelics and I discussed this in the
book. I think there is there are certain
advantages there clearly disadvantages
to the hassle of a long acting
psychedelic but there are some
advantages. It does allow the kind of
sustained contact with these deep
non-ordinary states that leads to a
purification
of the mind doing the exploration. Short
acting psychedelics
don't give you as large a window to be
changed and transformed by the
dimensions of consciousness that you're
contacting. This was Richard Tros
Stman's uh observations from his work
with DMT. He found much to his surprise
that while many of his subjects had
profound experiences on DMT, it did not
result in very lasting change to their
personality structure and he thought it
was because it's very short acting. It's
the window which is important which is
significant here.
Thank you. Thank you. So I don't I think
what I did in my work was to drill an
unusually deep bore hole into the
universe. But there's so much that I
didn't see. So much which these other
substances revealed to us which I did
not experience. I mean psilocybin and I
was connected to the elemental world.
They connect us to the world of spirit.
They connect us to the the all the
levels of intelligence that kind of live
close to and and saturate time space
reality. so many many levels that I did
not particularly uh engage or touch.
Okay. Thank you.
So, I know we have some questions in the
chat. So, uh David, do you want to
address some of the questions in the
chat?
Yeah. One moment here. Thank you. Let's
see.
[Music]
That was a beautiful answer, Chris. I
just want to say that. That was just so
well said.
And I've got a question. Uh or John
Hawk's got a question actually. David,
while you look, why don't we let John
ask his question?
Oh, bet. Go ahead, John.
Um couple quick ones actually. Well, all
this first one may not be quick. Um
uh I asked Stan Grath um at one point
directly if there was anything that he
could correlate uh a difficult trip with
and he said his work with Tarnis and his
own work turned up that a hard transit
to Mars to Natal Mars was the only thing
he could point to that would uh uh
predict a difficult trip. um and at the
time you was still working with Rick um
to go further. Now I find it fascinating
that you charted correlations while you
were doing your journeys and I'm
wondering specifically if you've come
what sort of correlate what things have
correlated astrologically and
specifically um has there been something
that would correlate to a breakthrough
to moving to a higher level?
Yeah, good question and a complicated
question.
Uh I'm aware of and Rick Tarnes is a
good friend as is Stan and I'm aware of
uh Stan's writing in his analysis of
certain cases and the and the
astrological correlations of certain
people going through breakthroughs. I'm
aware of the proposal that the outer
planets correlating with the pyodal
matrices seem to be uh somewhat
predictive of the patterns of
oppression, contraction, breakthrough
and liberation in people's experiences.
I've looked at these correlations in my
own work and on the one and first of all
I completely accept the proposal that
they've made. I understand it. I think
that makes sense. um the intelligence of
the universe that I experience. It makes
intuitive sense that the rhythm of the
universe would be part of the rhythm of
this intelligence and that as we open up
beyond personal psyche that there would
be this kind of this solar system pulse
to the nature of our experiences.
That said, I have not found correlations
to be as striking as I had expected.
And I have found that as my work
deepened over the years that I could not
correlate
breakthroughs and impasses with
astrological variables as much as I had
expected to do. And so that led me to
formulate a hypothesis and I call it the
rolloff hypothesis.
And that is in the early stages of our
work or when we're working at lower
doses or in earlier stages when our time
space identity is being unfolded and
impacted. I think there'd be stronger
correlations between our natal transits
the transits to our natal chart or even
our global transits. But as one works,
one's work deepens. When you begin to go
into and beyond archetypal reality, when
you're going beyond time and space and
deep into the universe, I think that
there is a rolloff effect of the
planetary coralates uh to experience. At
least I found that the dynamic
relationship with the universe, the way
the universe crushed me and kissed me
and drew me out and melted me into
herself
did not seem to correlate tightly
with specific planetary correlations.
Sometimes it did, sometimes it didn't.
So I I think there is a rolloff effect.
My proposal is that there's a rolloff
effect of astrological import. Now, this
is an open question. I'm not an
astrologer. This is something I'm
interested in. It's an active dialogue
between Richard Tarnis and myself uh
about this about this issue. Yeah,
thank you for that. And this is why in
my book I actually put the dates of all
of my sessions and I give my birth
information
because I would like to encourage this
discussion of the correlations between
astrology and our own psychedelic
experiences.
Thank you very much. Excellent,
excellent answer and your hypothesis
makes an awful lot of sense. Um, I'm
gonna stop my questions now and let
other pe open it up for other people.
There's a a number of very good
questions in the chat. So,
David, did you did you have one or
Teresa?
Uh, well, Rachel had a really good
question. I don't know if she wants to
ask it herself, but she wanted to speak
a little bit more about how your
consciousness work has changed and
affected your life over the time in in
your physical essence right now. In
other words, how how has that been
transformative in your life?
Good question.
Uh hard question to answer.
And I'll tell you one of the things that
really complicated things in my
particular instance.
And the thing that complicated it was
that I wasn't allowed to talk about my
work. I wasn't I mean I'm a teacher. I
love to teach. I love to learn and share
what I've learned. Uh I'm a philosopher.
And yet
our psychedelic phobic culture did not
allow me or give me any platform to
bring the deepest philosophical
experiences of my life forward and mind
them with my students or with my
colleagues uh to extract their
philosophical potential. So that when I
stopped my sessions, the kind of the
deep sadness I entered was not simply a
sadness that came from withdrawing from
the cosmological communion, but it was a
sickness which was generated by silence.
I have not been allowed to talk about
this work publicly. And as I wrote the
book, I began to experience a number of
changes taking place. And as I began to
speak about the book, these changes have
deepened. Um, I found my sessions
beginning to, as it were, come together
and into a larger aggregates into a
larger hole. As I began to own my
sessions, to own my psychedelic history
and come out of the psychedelic closet,
uh, these sessions began, as it were, to
saturate me and soak into me at deeper
and deeper levels. And this process is
still continuing. I don't know where it
will go. I live I wish I could say,
"Wow, I've touched the oneness of the
universe and I live in perpetual oneness
all the time." You know, I live in this
state of ecstatic joy all the time. But
it's not like that. Uh I think that
going into these temporary states and
it's really important to these are
temporary states. These are not the
same. They don't have the same impact as
touching these realities after 30 years
of contemplative practice on the top of
a mountain. It's not the same thing.
These are temporary immersions which are
genuine and you can't you can't abide in
these states simply when you come back
when you're done even if you've done all
your homework carefully and even if you
attend to integration very
conscientiously
but they change the trajectory of your
evolution they change the trajectory of
your soul's development I live with a an
understanding of reality that allows me
to open into a prayerful engagement of
reality uh which is certainly different
than I had in the beginning of this
journey and I think that
late in my sessions are at the end of my
journey spirit said to me
two things. It said 20 years in 20 years
out meaning it would take at least 20
years to assimilate 20 years of the of
journeying. And I think now I thought at
the time that sounds about right. Now
I'm thinking that might have been
optimistic. I literally think it will
the things that I've touched will be
unfolding
over many lifetimes. Not simply one
lifetime but it's changed the trajectory
of the evolution of my soul.
The other thing it said to me is there's
the dying of seeing and the dying of
keeping.
The dying of seeing is the death and
rebirth process you go to when you're
being initiated into the deep structure
of the universe. The dying of keeping is
what you do when you are in your
ordinary state of consciousness back
inside time and space in order to let
those experiences enter into and
saturate you deeper more and more deeply
into your daily life. My practice these
days is primarily
uh contemplative practice Buddhist
vajriana practice. I'm basically kind of
sitting still
and letting the universe come to me.
Uh, come to me here rather than going
out to meet it there.
Thank you. So, I know Donna, you said
there were a couple more questions in
the chat. You thought we're good.
I do. Yeah. Andrea has a question for
Chris. You know, Chris, none of these
are going to be easy just because of the
nature of your work.
Um, how has your understanding of the
future human changed or been reinforced
since first experiencing it in the late
90s to the writing of this book to the
present day?
It hasn't changed one bit. Uh
I say in the book that when I had the
experience in of session 55 the death
and rebirth of humanity in 1995
for weeks I walked around like I was
walking around Hiroshima a week before
the bomb went off. I have carried in my
being, in my body a knowing
of where we are in history and what's
coming. And when I look around everyone
around me, whether I agree with them
politically or socially or not, I look
at them and I see I see heroes. I see
every human being who is here on this
planet has incarnated voluntarily has
chosen to be part of this evolutionary
pivot. Every person here even though
they may not remember it at all has
chosen to be here and this is going to
be a very very difficult period to
incarnate. And the the beings who are
part of this incarnation process are
just extraordinarily powerful
valuable beings.
Nothing has changed. Um I still
it's been interesting to watch co it's
be it's been interesting to watch
ecological awareness begin to grow and
ferment and frankly things are coming to
a head or happening faster than I had
expected. Um, I expect this decade, if
everything the scientists are telling
us, this decade is the last window we
have to change the trajectory of what's
coming at us. But if the past is an
indication, we're not going to change as
radically as we need to change to avert
this trauma. And so, I expect the
patterns of trauma to intensify in the
decades and decades coming. This century
is going to be an extraordinary ordeal.
It is going to be the dark night of our
collective soul. But the dark knight of
the soul is of course a process of
profound purification.
And we as a species are purifying
ourselves extraordinarily rapidly. We're
purifying ourselves of all the decisions
we've made in history, of all the
choices we've made in the past. Our
choices on how to treat each other, our
choices on how to treat animals, our
choices on how to treat the planet
itself. All of these choices are kind of
coming at us very very fast and very
very deeply.
This is what I saw in my sessions. This
is what I've carried. This is what I'm
carrying now. This is what I uh I bring
to my children and to your children and
that is the vision that what we are
doing is profoundly significant and it's
important for every individual to reach
as deeply as possible and as high as
possible and to manifest their the
noblest intent possible.
If the future were moving in the same
way at the past, if we were using linear
understanding of history, we might say
it's the forces arigned against us are
overwhelming. It's just too much. The
individual can't do anything. We're just
going to be swallowed whatever by these
environmental processes. But that's not
what I saw in my sessions. What I saw in
my sessions is that as the suffering
increases, the entire psychic field of
humanity the the collective unconscious,
the collective psyche is going to be
increasingly pressurized. It's going to
be shoved into what physicists call
nonlinear conditions or far from
equilibrium conditions. And in far from
equilibrium conditions, individual
pertubations produce large changes,
large outcomes. Which means that as we
enter deeper into our crisis of history,
individuals can have a larger and larger
share an impact on the outcome on how
this crisis will manifest. So I think
it's a time of individual empowerment to
facilitate deep cultural profound social
transformation.
Yeah,
thank you, Chris.
Another amazing answer. Again, I highly,
highly recommend this book. It's so
detailed.
Just an amazing work. And we're almost
at the end of our time with you, Chris.
And again, many thanks for being with us
today and presenting on our platform.
And just as a note to everyone, uh,
everyone here is not being paid. We're
all volunteers. Chris is here for the
love of the work. So is David and
Teresa. All of us are. If you find any
of our content um valuable and you're
able to donate, we would much appreciate
it.